Essay 40% of final grade, due at the end of Week 10  

The final draft of the paper should be 8 pages (2000 words +/- 10% strictly enforced) in length (excluding the bibliography) and must be presented in proper scholarly format. The instructor may require that 10% of randomly selected students will have to meet to discuss their paper after completion to ensure there has been no improper LLM use. 

Students will write a major research paper (based primarily on academic sources) on a topic of their choice, to be arrived at in consultation with the instructor. Essay topics should be chosen by week 6. The essay will choose a pre-approved topic and the required material(s) and explicitly choose something to decolonize using Shilliam’s recontextualize, reconceptualize, reimagine framework. The assignment must be in proper formal essay format (no bullet points, short form, or colloquial language, can use subheadings to identify sections, use proper citation, and should NOT INCLUDE ANY FORM OF ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY). Dictionaries, encyclopedias, and Wikipedia should not be used, and use of web material is subject to instructor’s prior approval. A basic structure for the essay will include: 

Title, topic, and thesis question or area of interest for potential research. Preapproved topics and approaches are here. 

Something to decolonize using Shilliam’s recontextualize, reconceptualize, reimagine framework. The framework will provide the explanatory foundation of the thesis. 

Three key distinct arguments with evidence in support of the thesis. Remember to follow the paragraph structure in the course outline. The data should primarily come from course readings, the pre-approved suggested readings, and the suggested textbooks. Students must engage with at least four course texts to complete the assignment, and the majority  of your academic sources should come from the required and optional readings in the course outline. 

A conclusion that mirrors your title, topic, and thesis question. It is always a good idea to rewrite your introduction after you have written your conclusion. Your conclusion should provide the clear foundation that you have established throughout the essay, to demonstrate the validity of your thesis. Therefore, your thesis and your conclusion should match one another. Failure to have consistent argumentation will result in the inability to achieve full grades. 

Properly cited research. In-text citation is preferred (author-date system, as outlined below in ‘guidelines for success in class’). There should be no proxy urls (https://www.lib.uwo.ca/), no search urls (http://search.proquest.com/scholarly-journals/), or Dropbox urls (https://www.dropbox.com/). Citations need to be consistently formatted, readily available, in English, with precise page numbers (no inclusion of p.23-44, or consistent citation across pages (i.e. p.118-119). Lack of data is a lack of foundation. In the era of LLMs, inaccurate citations will be treated as no citation at all. LLMs routinely summarize sources without accessing the underlying data. Failure to directly quote sources with quotation marks followed by an explanation in your own words will constitute a lack of sufficient citation. Paraphrasing is no longer sufficient justification for including a citation; you must use specific and precise language, including nouns (specific people, places, and things), as generalized summaries of sources are often hallucinated, inaccurate, and incomplete when suggested by LLMs. 

A title page with your name, a title for your paper that reflects the thesis and topic of your paper, the date of submission, and the course number on it. If you cannot clearly and simply identify the title and topic of your paper, it is often an indicator of a lack of focus. 

Papers submitted before the deadline can revise and resubmit the assignment. For details on revision and resubmission see the ‘revise and resubmit’ tab in OWL. 
